# Chapter 6: Nimpossible Predicament

Start by heading down to Terajuma Beach, then talking to Nim on the right.

!battle(["Geara",:XENEXECUTIVE_3,3], "Beach Field")

How did Geara level up/evolve his Pokemon in the altered dimension and get a Krookodile? Who knows? Anyways, this is another very difficult fight with Geara. This will be a theme with this guy. His Pokemon generally have weaknesses to Steel and Water, at least?

Once the scenes are over, you'll be taken to the Ranger HQ. Go up here and watch the transmission! Afterwards, we finally get *HM03 Surf*! Nice.

We're first going to go to Jynnobi Pass for reasons that will become clear in a bit. Head up to the Mynori Sea and go surfing. For now, simply make a beeline to the upper right side of the water and go right to proceed to Jynnobi Pass.

Talk to the Noctowl Statue to activate it. Head into the Pokemon Center to get the *Good Rod*! This is very important... because now I can list areas that have Surfing and Good Rod encounters at the same time! Muahaha! That means:

Up some stairs to the left is a shop where you can exchange your Bike Voucher for a *Bicycle*! With some new wheels and new encounter capabilities, we have some exploration and quests to take care of! 

## Terajuma Island Surfing

Start by going left, back to the Mynori Sea. First, I note that there is a new Move Tutor in Luck's Tent.

!tutor("Marvin Move Tutor", [["Super Fang", "3 Red Shards"], ["Trick", "3 Blue Shards"], ["Dual Chop", "3 Green Shards"], ["Helping Hand", "3 Yellow Shards"], ["Giga Drain", "3 Yellow Shards"], ["Synthesis", "3 Green Shards"], ["Magnet Rise", "3 Blue Shards"], ["Uproar", "3 Red Shards"], ["Telekinesis", "2 Green Shards"]])

!enc(299, ["Surfing", "Fishing"], ["Good"])

In the top right of the area, you can battle **Corsola**! To the left at night though... you can battle **Galarian Corsola**. Even better.

Enter the Jirukala Cavern to the left. Surf to the right to grab a hidden *Rock Gem*, then emerge on the left side and get *TM144 Cross Poison*.

From here, surf west onto Route 5.

!enc(301, nil, ["Old", "Good"])

!battle(["Stacy",:AROMALADY,0], "Beach Field")

!battle(["Neville",:FISHERMAN,0], "Beach Field")

Grab *TM130 Sand Tomb* and a hidden *Star Piece* above. That's all we can do here, for now. Head back to Kakori Village, then down into the Terajuma Jungle.

!enc(210, ["Surfing", "Fishing"], ["Good"], "Terajuma Jungle / Deep Terajuma Jungle")

Nothing else other than encounters to do on this map yet, so go down into the Terajuma Shipyard next. 

!enc(207, ["Surfing", "Fishing"], ["Good"], "Terajuma Shipyard / Terajuma Beach")

Surf to the right from the southwest dock:

**ZCell 037: Terajuma Shipyard**

!img("zcell037.png")

Grab the *Red Shard* below. On an island at the bottom is *TM76 Struggle Bug*. That's it for this map right now, so head up, left, then down again to enter the Terajuma Beach. Talk to the Noctowl Statue right here to unlock another fast travel location. 

Go up, then up again to enter the Deep Terajuma Jungle. Surf down from the construction house to reach a hidden *Stardust* and:

**ZCell 038: Deep Terajuma Jungle**

!img("zcell038.png")

Proceed to the upper left to enter *Deeper* Terajuma Jungle. Head north to the Tyluric Temple and go inside.

## Tyluric Temple 2

!enc(179, ["Surfing", "Fishing"], ["Good"])

Basculin. Head to the right and go up the stairs to continue *Tantalizing Temple*.

!enc(181, nil, ["Old", "Good"], "Tyluric Temple (Upper Levels)")

Once you emerge on the Upper Level for the second time, start using the itemfinder. You'll find hidden *Berry Juice*, *Sitrus Berry*, and past some cyclones, a *Funnel Cake*. Wild **Slakoth** hang out here, too.

Surf down from the door to continue. Grab the hidden *Sitrus Berry*, *Mago Berry*, and *Liechi Berry*. Continue on.

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- I'm not afraid. (+1 Flora, +1 Florin, +3 Talon)
- Hell no. (+1 Florin, +2 Flora, -2 Talon)

Once you wake up, go down, then right. Interact with the mural at the top of the room. Once the cyclones are spawned, step on each one of them until the large cyclone at the top is formed. Go up it.

In this next room, talk to each mirror such that the ball of electricity generated by stepping on the tile reaches the top wall. Talk to the mural.

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- How petty... (+2 Talon, +1 Florin)
- I would do the same. (+1 Talon, +2 Florin)
- This is boring me to tears. (-2 Talon, -1 Florin)

Talk to the mural in the next room. Backtrack to the upper level, surf up, and go left. Step on the cyclone on the roof. From here, go left and grab the hidden *Leaf Stone* and *Oran Berry*. Head down and left, then enter the door.

!boss("RIFTCARNIVINE", "Grassy Terrain")

This is a wacky boss fight. Carnivine has three forms, each with a four times weakness - to Ice, then Fire twice, though it holds berries to nullify them in two forms. It switches around its and also your stat boosts at each phase as well, making it hard to pin down. The Tangela and Tangrowth it spawns are particularly annoying as well - they have moves like Follow Me and Quash that try to force you out of attacking Carnivine. 

Immediate Paralysis makes it much easier to deal with, since a Pokemon with moderate speed using one of said super-effective moves might be able to one-shot it. That's it for this quest, right now!

## Jynnobi Pass

In full this time, we head to Jynnobi Pass. Back in the Mynori Sea, surf to the right to reach it.

!enc(173, nil, ["Old", "Good"])

Talk to the girl up the stairs at the bottom to begin *A Souvenir For Mom* quest. Fly with Noctowl over to Terajuma Beach during the daytime. Talk to the man up the stairs to the left, then return to Jynnobi to give the souvenir to the girl. Unfortunately, she doesn't like this one, so we'll have to continue this quest later.

To the right:

**ZCell 039: Jynnobi Pass**

!img("zcell039.png")

Even more to the right:

**ZCell 040: Jynnobi Pass**

!img("zcell040.png")

Grab *TM145 Hex* nearby. Head up the stairs to the left and talk to the group.

Back inside the house in Kakori, talk to Melia. Say April Berry Moose Cake.

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- Definitely not. (+2 Aelita, +2 Adam, +2 Melia, +2 Valarie)
- Sitting can be fun. (+1 Adam, +1 Aelita, -1 Melia, -2 Valarie)

## Mt. Terajuma

Fly over to Terajuma Beach then go up into the Deep Terajuma Jungle. Activate this Noctowl Statue, then prepare for a fight. This one does not need to be won.

!boss("TAPUKOKOJUNGLE", "Forest Field")

Not the hardest boss we've had to face yet, thankfully. Proceed to the next map, surf across the stream up the stairs, and enter the cave.

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- Is this the only way? (Neutral)
- Maybe if we wait? (Neutral)
- This is so stupid. (-1 Melia)
- This is your fault. (-2 Melia if current Melia Pts > 5 else -3 Melia, -2 Aelita)

!enc(174, ["Grass"])

I recommend catching a Nincada and evolving it to get a Shedinja. It's helpful in a game like this... and for finally beating a certain trainer in East Gearen in a bit. Grab the hidden *Elemental Seed*.

Anyways, head back outside and cross the bridge. After a scene, enter this door. Get the hidden *Nest Ball* and *Max Repel*. Use the lift on the left. Outside, follow the path and grab the hidden *PP Up* and *Green Shard*. Look through the binoculars if you wish. Jump down into the left tile of the water specifically. Grab the *5 Exp. Candy L*, *Heart Scale*, and *Red Shard* as well as hidden *Green Shard*, and mine some rocks. Get a hidden *Hyper Potion* below, then go back up the lift. Jump down the rightmost water tile. Pick up the hidden *Red Shard*.

!battle(["Demetra",:XENGRUNT_F,0], "Cave Field")

Climb the next lift. Hiding behind a rock on the left is **Wimpod**! Exit into Mt. Terajuma!

!enc(295)

There are also **Aevian Snorunt** to the right! Very nice.

Grab the hidden *Revival Herb*, *Green Shard*, *Clever Wing*, *Resist Wing*, *Muscle Wing*, *TinyMushroom*, and *Exp. Candy M* as you go right. Behind another Aevian Snorunt is a hidden *Rare Candy*. Continuing, grab a hidden *Rock Gem*, *Exp. Candy L* and *Ether*.

Talk to the Noctowl Statue to create another fly location. Enter the Weather Institute.

!battle(["Gina",:XENGRUNT_F,0])

!battle(["Georgie",:XENGRUNT_M,0])

!battle(["Mac",:XENGRUNT_M,0])

!battle(["Shino",:XENANALYST_F,0])

After the scene is over, reenter the Institute. Talk to the receptionist for *3 Fresh Waters*. A person here asks us to show them the TMs Sunny Day, Hail, and Rain Dance; we will later. We can trade away Dunsparce f or **Castform** here as well!

!shop("Weather Institute Petals", ["Pink Petal", "Green Petal", "Orange Petal", "Blue Petal"])

Back outside, go down some of the stairs but go right. You'll see another cave here. The left lift is a shortcut back down to the jungle - take the right one instead.

Follow this path out when you are ready.

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- They're a lost cause. (+1 Aelita, +1 Melia)
- You're overreacting. (-1 Aelita, -2 Melia)
- We should calm down... (+2 Aelita, +1 Melia)

You get to choose to fight Neved or Zetta here.

!battle(["Neved",:XENEXECUTIVE_4,1], "Forest Field")

!battle(["Zetta",:XENEXECUTIVE_1,5], "Forest Field")

Neither fight should be too difficult at this point: neither has particular field synergy. Once you win, talk to Rorim B below. Take the cable car down, then talk to Aelita in the squad house.

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- I'm sure she's fine. (+1 Aelita)
- Do we really have to? (-2 Aelita)
- I agree. (+2 Aelita)

Use Noctowl to reach Terajuma Beach and talk to Melia.

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- We have to! (+2 Melia, +2 Saki, +2 Aelita)
- I'm not sure... (-3 Adam, -2 Valarie, -1 Melia)
- Just stay strong. (+3 Adam, +2 Valarie)

Talk to Crawli in his office, and accept the fast travel to the shipyard.

## Helojak Island

Talk to Crawli and Rorim B on the dock to go to Helojak Island.

!enc(201)

There are also wild **Gastrodon** roaming about.

Go up the stairs at the entrance. Grab the *Absorb Bulb* in the overworld.

Near Braixen is a hidden *Leppa Berry*. There is an *Absorb Bulb* to the right. Go up the stairs to the right, grab the hidden *Lemonade* and *Hondew Berry*, then get three *Absorb Bulbs* to the right. Down from here is a hidden *Pecha Berry*. Cross some vegetation to the right to get a hidden *X Attack*. More vegetation above will take us to a hidden *Big Mushroom* as well as *TM108 Mud Barrage*!

Next, we're going to backtrack to the entrance of the area. Go left past Valarie and Saki. You can walk on the vegetation over the water to reach a hidden *Yellow Shard* and *TinyMushroom*. Further up is a *SilverPowder* as well as another hidden *TinyMushroom* and *Shoal Shell*. On the next landmass, go down, grab the *Absorb Bulb* and hidden *Red Shard*, and *Sitrus Berry*. Activate the Noctowl Statue here, then head north into Helojak Factory.

Once you reach the group, step onto a tile over the water to be taken to some grunts.

!battle(["Bentley",:XENGRUNT_M,0], "Factory Field")

Change the water direction, and cross to the left. Enter the door.

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- Are you okay? (Neutral)
- Get over it. (-7 Melia, -2 Aelita, -2 Crawli)
- We need to move. (Neutral)

Exit at the top left.

!battle(["Sasha",:XENGRUNT_F,0], "Factory Field")

Now that our Snag Machine has been repaired, you can capture **Shadow Baltoy**! Follow the path to the left, watch the scene, then return to Sasha and go right. Get the *Stabilizer* in this room, then reverse the water direction and go left across the water twice.

!battle(["Firion",:XENGRUNT_M,0], "Factory Field")

Catch **Shadow Stunfisk (Galarian)**!

!battle(["Emily",:XENGRUNT_F,0], "Factory Field")

Catch **Shadow Masquerain**! In the next room, cross the water to the right. Head out onto the roof.

!battle(["Ren",:TRAINER_REN,6], "Swamp Field")

The Speed-dropping effect of the Swamp Field makes sweeps very difficult without priority moves, so doing a lot of predicting and switching is necessary here.

Once you win, accept the offer to go to sleep. Back outside, Crawli will challenge us to a gym battle.

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- Really? (Neutral)
- You're on. (+2 Crawli)

## Kakori Help Quests

You'll now be able to access Kakori's Help Center.

### Building Bridges

We actually already did the work for this quest [back in Chapter 5](#deep-terajuma-jungle). You can get the rewards for this quest now: $4,890 and a *Sun Stone* (+1 Karma).

### Battle Me Once More!

We actually already did the work for this quest [back in Chapter 5](#mynori-sea). You can get the rewards for this quest now: $4,500, *10 Max Repels*, *10 Reverse Candies*, and *10 Super Potions*. (+1 Karma).

### Black Shard Secret

Accept the quest, then head over to the T. Excavation Site at night. It's to the east of the entrances to Mt. Terajuma in Deep Terajuma Jungle. Enter the building. Back outside, defeat the agitated Nosepass and get *250 Red Essence*. 

!battle(["Rick",:COOLGUY,0], "Forest Field")

Reenter the building and talk to April again.

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- Good friends (+3 Alexandra)
- We were friends (+1 Alexandra)
- Not really. (-1 Alexandra)

Head up to Mt. Terajuma after you go outside. You'll find Rick on the bridge.

!battle(["Rick",:COOLGUY,1], "Mountain Field")

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- Just take it. (+5 Alexandra)
- Eh... (+1 Alexandra)
- You deserve jail time. (-3 Alexandra)

Talk to Alexandra outside, then return to the Help Center to get $4,326.

### Abnormal Phenomenon

Use a Noctowl Statue to reach the Weather Institute on Mt. Terajuma. After the conversation inside, take the rightmost lift in the bottom right cave entrance on the mountain to reach the Great Terajuma Falls.

!battle(["Mr. Hynde",:DIABOLICALGENIUS,0], "Forest Field")

!move("VILEASSAULT")

Aevian Kommo'o mentioned!!! 

Unfortunately the culprit "gets away". Head back to the Weather Institute and talk to the president on the top floor. Return to the Help Center to get your rewards: a **Bulbasaur** egg, $5,000, and a *Rare Candy* (+1 Karma)

### Suspicious Person

Accept the quest, then take a Noctowl Statue to Helojak Island. Go down and left from the statue, and you'll see a person. Follow them to the bottom side of the island and talk to them again.

Head into Helojak Factory. Proceed through the dungeon as we did once before - enter the formerly locked door in the upper-left side of the factory.

!battle(["Edward",:TEAMAA_M,1], "Factory Field")

Talk to the machine behind to deactivate pistons. This turns off the currents in the factory. Surf to the top of the factory to get on the roof. Here, you can battle and catch **Elekid** in exchange for a GourmetTreat! 

Anyways, return to the Help Center to get $4,255 (+1 Karma).

Now that we've done all five Kakori Help Quests, we'll need to Chase Team AA in the back room.

!dbattle(["Marcin",:TEAMAA_M,0], ["Aruo",:TEAMAA_M,0])

Grab the *TM57 Charge Beam* and the *Center Keys* here, as well as a *Data Drive*. Back outside, talk to April at the bottom.

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- Finish all Kakori Help Quests (+4 Alexandra)

She'll also give you the Aevian Mystery Egg... a randomly determined mystery egg that will hatch into one of the game's new Aevian Forms! Specifically, it can be **Aevian Magikarp**, **Aevian Budew**, **Aevian Wimpod**, **Aevian Shroomish**, **Aevian Larvesta**, **Aevian Bronzor**, **Aevian Feebas**, or **Aevian Sigilyph**.

That's it for the help quests.

## Gearen Area Surfing & Side Quests

If you thought we were done with side content for now, you'd be mistaken.... since we now have Surf, the Good Rod, and access to Floria Island, there is a ton more content that is open to us. Take the boat from Kakori Village to Oceana Pier.

Talk to Dragonite in Oceana Pier. He's lost some letters, so we're going to help pick them up for it. The first is immediately up and left from it. The second is left behind some trees. The third is in the upper left corner between some dumpsters. Give them back to get a *Thunderstone*!

Enter East Gearen, and go to the Magnolia Library. Talk to Zumi upstairs to get our next target for *PictoZumi*. She's looking for Pyukumuku, which we already have. She'll give us 6 *Exp. Candy M*. Our next quest is for Mareep!

The Poke Ball shop has two new balls now:

!shop("Poke Ball Boutique (5 Badges)", ["Heavy Ball", "Moon Ball", "Love Ball", "Fast Ball", "Nest Ball", "Net Ball", "Timer Ball", "Dive Ball"])

There's also a few new berries now.

!shop("Berry Emporium (5 Badges)", ["Oran Berry", "Pecha Berry", "Rawst Berry", "Chesto Berry", "Cheri Berry", "Aspear Berry", "Sitrus Berry"])

Next, head to the basement of Chrisola hotel. Surf to the dark patch in the water at night and use a GourmetTreat to get **Totodile**! Also, grab the *Water Stone*.

There are also a couple new items in the AP shop.

!shop("AP Shop New Items (5 Badges)", [["TM56 Fling", "5 AP"], ["TM47 Low Sweep", "5 AP"]])

Enter the Abandoned Sewers Real quick for some new Pokemon.

!enc(55, ["Fishing"], ["Good"])

## Goldenleaf Area Surfing & Side Quests

Take the truck to Goldenleaf Town next. 

!enc(82, ["Surfing", "Fishing"], ["Good"])

Talk to Dragonite in the square - it's lost its letters again!

The first is south of the pair of houses, in the southwest corner of the town. The second letter is on the hill south of the cemetery. The third is in the grass area at the bottom. Finally, the fourth on the hill to the right of Narcissa's house. Once we have all four, talk to Dragonite to get *TM113 Brutal Swing*!

Head up to the Forgotten Path. 

!enc(91, ["Surfing", "Fishing"], ["Good"])

Surfing left, you can get a *Naughty Mint*.

Enter Wispy Ruins through the statue, then head into the right door. Step on the tile, then head in to and get Griselda's Treasure 5: a *Cursed Candle*!

Head to Wispy Path next.

!enc(95, ["Surfing", "Fishing"], ["Good"])

Go to Wispy Tower's outside and walk to the east. The guy won't stop us anymore, so we can explore this area.

!enc(102)

Head to the right and go up. You'll get *Berry Ice Cream* from Karen. *TM118 Pin Missile* is here as well, plus:

**Wisp 08: Wispy Tower**

!img("wisp08.png")

The area beyond is Wispy Ruins. Enter and get *TM41 Torment*! We can't explore as we don't have Rock Climb yet.

Back outside, head west into Goldenwood Forest. The top left corner has a river that you can surf on. Get the hidden *Rare Candy* across.

!enc(321, ["Surfing", "Fishing"], ["Good"])

Enter the cave here to find:

**ZCell 041: Den of Verity**

!img("zcell041.png")

Head into Goldenwood Cave. 

!enc(8, ["Surfing", "Fishing"], ["Good"])

Surf left and go down to the basement level. Grab the *Revive* to the right, and a hidden *Big Root*. *TM98 Power-Up-Punch* is below. 

!battle(["Satella",:KIMONOGIRL,0], "Cave Field")

You'll also be able to find: 

**ZCell 042: Goldenwood Cave**

!img("zcell042.png")

**Wisp 09: Goldenwood Cave**

!img("wisp09.png")

**Wisp 10: Goldenwood Cave**

!img("wisp10.png")

With all ten Wisps, talk to the tower at night and with an Odd Keystone in the bag to catch **Spiritomb**!

On the right, you'll find Jorgie, the seventh kid who you can send to the Lost Camp for the *Lost Souls* quest.

## Sheridan Area Surfing & Sidequests

Take the truck back to East Gearen, then take the train over to Route 2. The stationary Aipom are now **Ambipom**!

!enc(199, ["Surfing", "Fishing"], ["Good"])

Enter Amethyst Cave.

!enc(4, ["Surfing", "Fishing"], ["Good"])

Now that our level cap is Lv. 45, it is a good time to take on Spirit Keta in the Amethyst Grotto. For winning, we get a *Blue Shard*, *Red Shard*, *Green Shard*, *Black Prism*, *Exp. Candy L*, and *TM17 Protect*!

!battle(["Keta",:LEADER_KETA2,0])

Enter the room at the top, the one shaped like an upside-down V. Around the room you'll find a hidden *Blue Shard, Reverse Candy, Red Shard, Mineral Ball*. Here, you'll find Amethyst Power Supply Panel 2.

**ZCell 043: Amethyst Cave**

!img("zcell043.png")

The next room with the river contains hidden *Rare Candy* and *Red Shard*. Exit to Sheridan.

!enc(423, ["Surfing", "Fishing"], ["Good"])

Surfing to the southeast of the inn, you'll find a *Timid Mint*, and also only at night:

**ZCell 044: Sheridan Village**

!img("zcell044.png")

Head up to the daycare and surf to the west. Here's a **Treecko** who will fight you in exchange for a GourmetTreat! 

**ZCell 045: Sheridan Village**

!img("zcell045.png")

Head up to the Sheridan Arena. Surf up and left to get *TM87 Swagger*. On the right, only at night:

**ZCell 046: Sheridan Arena**

!img("zcell046.png")

Next, make your way west of Sheridan to Route 3.

!enc(67, ["Surfing", "Fishing"], ["Good"], "Route 3 / Phasial Cave")

**ZCell 047: Route 3**

!img("zcell047.png")

Enter the Mirage Woods at the top of Route 3. Make your way all the way through the woods to the Mirage Town and cross under the waterfall. Surf down to get a hidden *Blue Shard*. To the left, go down the stairs to reach a small pond.

!enc(149, ["Surfing", "Fishing"], ["Good"])

Cross this pond. In the cave, talk to the girl. This is the Move Relearner, who is now going to be open for business in Sheridan Village. In the cave, you'll find a hidden *Exp. Candy M*, *Yellow Shard*, and a *Naive Mint*, though the latter requires using a Blast Powder.

Back on Route 3, enter Phasial Cave from the top right. Surf up in the corner to get *TM146 Razor Shell*! Surf down in the bottom left area, grab the *Data Drive*, then go down the ladder. Talk to the girl to get the *Troupe Flute* and begin the *Poliwag Quest*!

Head west to exit onto Moon Field. 

!enc(142, nil, ["Old", "Good"])

Pick up *TM127 Beat Up* and *TM58 Sky Drop*. Use your Itemfinder here for a *Nest Ball*, *Star Piece*, *2 Dusk Balls*, and *Max Repel*. In the RV is a *Star Piece*.

On any night, you'll be able to find:

**ZCell 048: Moon Field**

!img("zcell048.png")

Come here on a Saturday night and you'll be able to get a *Moon Stone* and catch a Clefairy.

We can start the *Poliwag Quest* search by getting two of them now. Head back to Wispy Path and use the flute on Poliwag #1. Take the truck to Sheridan, and go to the Spring of Purification. Here you'll find Poliwag #2.

## River's End

Make your way back to the south part of Route 3. Surf down the river!

!enc(432, nil, ["Old", "Good"])

Land to the left to grab the hidden *Link Heart*, *HP Up*, *Revive*, and *Green Shard*. Land to the right to grab *TM44 Rest* and a hidden *Fresh Water*, *Green Shard*, and *Cheri Berry*. Go south from here, under a land bridge, then proceed further south to Route 2. Grab *TM46 Thief* to the left, and to the right:

**ZCell 049: Route 2**

!img("zcell049.png")

Back in River's End, surf to the left. Climb the stairs and get a hidden *Ability Capsule*, *Elixir*, *Synthetic Seed*, *Yellow Shard*, *Elemental Seed*, and *Tiny Mushroom*. 

Enter the building above the land bridge. Ask Matthew about his studies above and begin *The Inconsistency* quest. If you answer all three of Eizen's questions correctly, you'll get a special scene.

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- Answer "Akora Shore" (+1 Eizen)
- Answer "Evergreen" (-1 Eizen)

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- Answer "Summer" (+1 Eizen)
- Answer "Winter" (-1 Eizen)

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- Answer "East" (+1 Eizen)
- Answer "North" (Neutral)

Anyways, get the *Lab Key* from them. Take it on over to the Forsaken Laboratory beneath Wispy Tower. In the leftmost room, surf to the black door and use the key.

Talk to this tablet and you'll be engaged with a puzzle. Here is the solution:

!img("nullpuzzle.png")

Enter the pathway to the north, and you'll be taken back to Matthew's lab. He needs us to retrieve a Magnet, a Poke Ball, and an Up-Grade. Poke Balls can be obtained in stores, we've found two Up-Grades so far, and we were given a Magnet on Route 2 by showing a guy our Emolga.

Get the items in your bag, and return. The Pokemon inside will run off, to a hill in the bottom left side of River's End. You'll get to battle **Type: Null!**

Add Null to your party, then evolve it by friendship into **Silvally**. Head back to River's End and talk to Matthew at his house. He'll give us the *Poison Memory!* We'll be finding the rest as we continue in the game.

If you answered Eizen's questions "correctly" earlier, enter the building to the north in River's End. You'll get **Aevian Munna** and *Nightmare Fuel*!

## Akuwa Area Surfing & Sidequests

Back in Goldenleaf, head through the Wispy Ruins to Route 4.

Go up the stairs to the right, then surf up at the top of the mountain: you'll find Teddie, the eighth kid, here for the *Lost Souls* quest. There is also another den here!

!raid(3, 4)

West of Cairo's house, surf up. You'll find *TM88 Sleep Talk* as well as, only at night:

**ZCell 050: Route 4**

!img("zcell050.png")

Plus, the fourth and final den is here.

!raid(4, 4)

North of Cairo's house, also at night:

**ZCell 051: Route 4**

!img("zcell051.png")

That's all that we can do here for now. You might have enough Rift Essence to grab those crests or Chespin if you haven't gotten them yet.

Head up to Akuwa Town.

!enc(13, ["Surfing", "Fishing"], ["Good"])

There's nothing else to do in Akuwa Town yet, as all the people are still gone. Surf east. As you do, pick up hidden *Blast Powder*, *Poke Ball*, and *Health Wing* on the islands. Surf east to reach Route 11.

!enc(3, nil, ["Old", "Good"])

Hidden on the first island is a *Dire Hit*. Grab the *Red Shard*, then talk to the Xen Grunt... He wants 10 Sweet Hearts. Buy them from the Route 3 Vendor if you haven't yet, then return.

!battle(["Quentin",:XENGRUNT_M,0])

Beat the grunt, and you'll be engaged in battle with a level 40 **Jynx**!

Go to the southwest. At night only:

**ZCell 052: Route 11**

!img("zcell052.png")

Starting to the southwest and going north, use your itemfinder on the islands to find *HP Up*, *Adamant Mint*, *Red Shard*, and *Blue Shard*. 

!battle(["Sheen",:BLACKBELT,0])

Continue heading up, picking up hidden *Jolly Mint*. Pick up the *Ether* to the right. 

!battle(["Simon",:YOUNGSTER,0])

Further to the right, you'll find Poliwag #3 for the *Poliwag Quest*! On the island south of here, you'll find:

**ZCell 053: Route 11**

!img("zcell053.png")

Anyways, grab the *Max Repel* and hidden *Ice Heal*, then enter the cave on the east side here.

!enc(490, nil, ["Old", "Good"], "Seabound Cave / Evergreen Cave")

Catch two Sandshrew here, we are gonna trade one away in a bit. You can break the ice by a move like Bulldoze to get the Water encounters, but can't otherwise proceed.

## Evergreen Island & Seabound Cave

Head out, and up to the Evergreen Island map northwest of Route 11.

!enc(75, nil, ["Old", "Good"])

Talk to the Octillery here to battle them. Land on the island at the top of the Island map. Grab the hidden *Heart Scale* to the right, then attempt to enter the forest, and Nana will stop you. She'll invite you to her home, so head in. She'll give you the *Mysterious Emblem*. This will also give you access to a PC and bed, which we'll be using a lot in this section.

Grab something from the PC with Blizzard, and something with either Magnitude, Earthquake, or Bulldoze. The best choice is training a Castform to 35 for Blizzard, and any Pokemon who'll learn the Bulldoze TM. Also, grab something with Heat Wave, Flame Burst, Lava Plume, or Eruption, such as the Magcargo we evolved earlier.

Then, surf to the cave to the south, and use Blizzard in a battle. After the field has changed, use the ground move, and a path will open. Enter and surf to battle **Lapras**!

Heal at Nana's house again, then enter the cave to the right.

Use the fire move in battle, then surf across. Exit at the southeast to get:

**ZCell 054: Evergreen Island**

!img("zcell054.png")

Enter again and take the ladder down. We can't yet do the strength puzzle portion, but we can explore. 

!battle(["Karlson",:TOURIST,0], "Icy Field")

!battle(["Charlotte",:LASS,0], "Icy Field")

!dbattle(["Samuel",:TECH,0], ["Ned",:BLACKBELT,0], "Icy Field")

Beat the trainers then grab the *X Special*. Hidden is a *Zinc*, *Rare Candy*, and *Full Heal*. Hop into the hole all the way at the bottom. Grab the *DeepSeaScale* then head through the hole. We can't do anything in this area yet, but we will come back. Head back up the ladder.

!battle(["Clare",:COOLTRAINER_F,0], "Icy Field")

Climb up the ladder, then jump down the leftmost hole to get *DeepSeaTooth*. In this path you'll find the Icy Rock. That's all we can do for now without strength, so head back out of the cave.

Finally, enter the Evergreen Forest.

!enc(470, nil, ["Old", "Good"])

There are also Swablu that fly around here. There is a stationary Stantler to the right in the forest, as well as **Buneary**. Catch two for a trade!

There are lots of *Snowballs* on the ground we can pick up. Hidden around the entrance areas are a *Max Repel*, and *Genius Wing*. 

!battle(["Shiela",:AROMALADY,0])

Head to the bottom right next. 

!battle(["Sarai",:KIMONOGIRL,0])

Grab the a *Dusk Ball* on the mountain, and the hidden *Telluric Seed*.

Head back to the middle area. Hidden as you head up and to the dead end on the left is *Ice Heal*, *Ice Gem*, *Paralyze Heal*, *Hyper Potion*, *Zinc*, and *Genius Wing*. Surf across the pond we passed earlier. You'll find Mitsudo, the ninth kid, for the *Lost Souls* quest!

Hidden on this path is *Resist Wing*, *HP Up*, *Rare Candy*, and *Telluric Seed*. At night we can battle stationary Snorunt.

Head back down and surf back across the pond. Go up and right to find a hidden *X Special*. Follow the final path up, go all the way up to the spring, and grab the *Max Repel*. Either Anju's Pendant or the Mysterious Emblem will allow you to enter the spring of preservation at the top.

Enter the spring and talk to the **Piplup** for a battle.

One more thing we can do in this area for now: evolve one of your Buneary via happiness into **Lopunny**, then trade it with the person on Evergreen Island for a **Shroomish**.

That's all we can do in the Route 11 area right now!

Return to Gearen City and talk to Ayuda - now that we've collected 50 Zygarde Cells, we will be given a *Cell Imprint* as well as the *Macho Brace*. Our next threshold is 75.

Take the boat back to Terajuma, then take a Noctowl to Deep Terajuma Jungle. Surf right at the bottom of the map to find get Poliwag #4 for the *Poliwag Quest*.

## Infested Badge

You'll notice there is a breeder by the Kakori Help Center. Defeating them grants you *5 Exp. Candy M*.

!battle(["Sarah",:POKEBREEDER_F,0], "Forest Field")

Enter Crawli's gym in the Ranger HQ. Enter the bottom left room first.

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- That was easy! (+1 Adam)
- Nice job! (+2 Adam)
- This is cheating... (-2 Adam)

Pick up the Rowlet and bring it back to Dartrix. The Water Sigil will be activated for us, so return to the hub room. Enter the bottom right room next. Grab the *Exp. Candy L* and jump across the rock paths.

!battle(["Andy",:POKEMONRANGER_M,0], "Forest Field")

!battle(["Lila",:POKEMONRANGER_F,0], "Forest Field")

You can catch the **Pinsir** here. Up above, oh no....

!boss("CRESCGOTHITELLE", "Forest Field")

All it takes is two really good whacks to defeat this thing - its speed isn't unsurmountable, especially paralyzed. Activate the Grass Sigil beyond, then return to the hub.

Enter the top right door next. 

!battle(["Tin",:POKEMONRANGER_M,0], "Forest Field")

Take the top teleporter, then the bottom teleporter. You'll find the *Bug Memory* below!

!battle(["Sisi",:POKEMONRANGER_F,0], "Forest Field")

Take the bottom teleporter, push the log down, then teleport back. Take the top teleporter next. This brings us back to the entrance of this room. Exit, then reenter via the top left door in the hub. Follow the path using the teleporter and log to activate the Fire Sigil.

Back in the hub, take the lift down.

!battle(["Rorim B.",:DISCOTEEN,1], "Swamp Field")

Shouldn't be too terrible. Watch out for the boosted Water moves and speed penalties. Pick up *TM106 Irritation* to the left, plus:

**ZCell 055: Kakori Depths**

!img("zcell055.png")

!battle(["Crawli",:LEADER_CRAWLI,0], "Swamp Field")

!move("BARBEDWEB")

This is a pretty tough fight. Basically everything is stacked against you getting any positive momentum in this fight: it's Doubles, the field drags your speed down, Sash Galvantula loves to set Sticky Web, and Barbed Web spreads poison easily. You've got Golisopod's in-n-out strategies to contend with plus the speedy/tanky combo of Accelgor and Escavalier, too. Fire moves are even weakened on this field!

There are things we can take advantage of, particularly on the Swamp Field, to win this fight. You can use powered up Bug and Water moves yourself, for example, to deal heavy damage. Flying and Levitating Pokemon have a huge advantage in not being slowed down each turn. While the team has some tanky members, you may be able to simply overpower them with Rock Slide!

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- Really?! (Crawli +1)
- I will serve well. (Crawli +2)
- That's a lame prize. (Crawli -3)

You'll get the Infested Badge, bringing our Level Cap up to Lv. 50, as well as *TM81 X-Scissor*!

**Relationship Point Choices**:
- Boast (Saki +2)
- Be humble. (Adam +2)

